Tottenham Hotspur handed Real Madrid the second successive loss in four days, thrashing the European champions 3-1 at Wembley Stadium in London. It was Madrid’s first loss in 30 games at the group stage of the Champions League since 2012, when they lost to Borussia Dortmund. Tottenham had held Madrid at home 1-1 when they met two weeks ago at the Santiago Bernabeu. Dele Alli banged in two goals, with Eriksen adding the third goal. Ronaldo at close range in the 80th minute scored Madrid’s only goal in the night they would want to forget in a hurry. The Spanish giants have never been so comprehensively beaten by an English team in the last five years. Dele Alli, Tottenham midfielder told BT Sport at the end of the game: “It was a fantastic performance from us. We know if we stuck to the game plan we would get chances. It could have been more today. “We knew if we were solid at the back we would get chances and with the team we’ve got here we don’t just want to compete, we want to be winning. It’s a great result to build on.”  With two games still to play in Group H, Tottenham’s first ever win over Real means they are guaranteed to reach the knockout phase and, just as significantly, it should give them genuine belief they can mount a serious challenge for the trophy. “It gives great belief and confidence to everyone because it’s a great result and we are in the next stage of the Champions League but it’s so important now to keep feet on the grass,” Spurs boss Mauricio Pochettino said after a win that ranks among the finest in his club’s history. While Tottenham were in dreamland, Madrid’s shambolic display, coming after a shock La Liga defeat at minnows Girona last weekend, will add to the pressure on Zidane as he struggles to handle the first major test of his coaching credentials. Real were unable or unwilling to match Tottenham’s intensity and Zidane said: “In all aspects Tottenham were superior. “We are going through a bad moment. We have to keep our heads high.” In the build-up to the match, Tottenham defender Jan Vertonghen had bragged he wouldn’t swap Harry Kane for even Ronaldo. Kane buzzed around the Madrid defence with real menace and his driven pass to Kieran Trippier gave the right-back the chance for an audacious volley that flashed wide of the far post.