By Nicholas Obisike and Stanley Nwanosike/Enugu Chief John Nwodo, former Minister of Information, has emerged as the 9th President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Nwodo, who had been sworn in, scored 242 votes to beat Prof. Chiweyite Ejike, who got 13 votes on Tuesday. In his acceptance speech after the election, Nwodo said that he would reposition Ohanaeze to bring more development to Ndi-Igbo and Igboland. “I will enshrine transparency and accountability in the affairs of Ohanaeze “I will work with my team to re-invigorate the entire South-East for productivity and re-establish Enugu as the capital of the South-East. “Ohanaeze will dialogue and find lasting solution to the IPOB and other agitations and reconcile our children to ourselves. “As well, we will help to build a united and striving Nigeria in all ramifications,’’ he said. Nwodo, however, thanked the delegates that voted for him as well as others that contributed to his success. Earlier, the outgone President of the group, Chief Gary Enwo-Igariwey, thanked Ndigbo for the support given to his leadership; adding that his team started the multi-million headquarters building of the group. Enwo-Igariwey said that his team had established a cordial and beneficial relationship with the governors of the Igbo speaking states within the past four years. “We made strong representation of issues concerning Igbo people at the 2014 National Conference held in Abuja as well as called for the re-structuring of the country to reflect true federalism,’’ he said. Other contestants that emerged winners included: Mr Hilary Opara for Deputy President-General; Mr Uche Okwukwu for Secretary-General and Mr Emeka Ogwu for National Treasurer. The election also witnessed 13 positions returned unopposed, which included: Dr Solomon Ogunji as Deputy Secretary-General; Mr Charles Odunukwe as Vice President Anambra; Dr Sylvester Ebigwei as Vice President Delta and Prof. Chigozie Ogbu as Vice President Ebonyi. Others include: Elder Onuoha Udeka as the Vice President Abia; Prince Igo Okpalanma as Vice President Rivers; Chief Eric Ebeh as Assistant National Treasurer; Mr Alphonsus Duru, Financial Secretary and Elder Chris Eluomunoh as Assistant Financial Secretary. The rest are: Mr Uche Ani as the Publicity Secretary; Mr Charles Ibegbu, Assistant Publicity Secretary; Chief Chuks Momah (SAN), National Legal Adviser and Mr Okeagu Ogada, National Assistant Legal Adviser. (NAN)